Hello, my name is Evgeny Lunev. I am a teacher of IT module for a manager, which is part of MBA Start program.
In previous lectures we have learned about the concept of information and its forms of transformation,
such as information technology and information system.
We have learned about the main concepts of IT strategy, IT standardization, business modeling,
and defined the key areas for IT in business. These areas are related to security, IT audit and economic efficiency.
Finally, we have analyzed one of the most advanced and modern and promising methodologies of building relationships between IT and business,
namely, the organization of a service approach to the building of the information infrastructure of the company's enterprises
according to the recommendations of the ITIL library.
We will start our journey with the concept of MRP and RP, that is, management of corporate resources.
The perspective of the organization will be based on the position of a business corporation,
which provides that this corporation has some kind of a remote ownership, some kind of legal address,
that its functions of managing this corporation are concentrated in the hands of professional managers,
that is, employees who work for hiring.
Next, our corporation is inclined to expand diversification of various types of economic activities.
For it, the growth of the scale of the volume of resources, including, for example, the increase in the number of employees, is characterized.
Finally, it is inclined to expand the geography of its organizational units, that is, divisions,
that is, their expansion over the territory of Russia.
Next, our corporation is virtually inclined to take into account the external economic environment,
that is, the normative right environment, market infrastructure, competition and others,
when developing some kind of its own strategy of activity.
And finally, managers and top management of our virtual corporation are inclined or are the apologetics of the application of information technologies.
As for the size and scale of the business of our corporation,
from the position in which we will assess certain IT solutions or IT products,
our corporation will correspond to the category of small and medium-sized business SMB,
which is striving to become a large distributed territorial holding.
So, below is a incomplete list of the geographical business concepts,
which were formed approximately from the 50s of the last century,
and which were the basis of the standards of management and distribution of modern IT systems.
Look at the slides.
So, I remind you that somewhere in the mid-50s, the first concept was the Taylor Scientific Labor Organization,
and the cycle of quality of daming.
Then, somewhere in about 1965, the concept of MRP appeared,
the planning of needs in materials.
In 1975, this concept was transformed into MRP-1,
the planning of needs in materials in a closed cycle,
the composition of the production program and the control of its execution.
Further, in 1980, the concept of MRP-2 appeared,
which is already a planning of production resources based on data from suppliers and consumers.
It was also introduced a prognosis, planning, production control.
In 1985, the methodology or concept of MRP-2 was combined with the concept of Just-in-Time,
that is, exactly in time, JIT,
and the so-called ability to optimize and narrow places in production and production appeared.
In 1987, the significant event was the introduction of the standard of quality management,
the ISO 9000.
And in 1990, combining MRP with financial planning,
an analogue of the modern ERP system appeared,
that is, the planning of enterprise resources.
Distribution and planning have already become the subject of the information system itself,
as well as financial planning, I repeat.
In 1994, the concept of business process re-engineering was announced,
the concepts of the life cycle of production were unified,
the transition to the principles of constant improvement of corporate activities was carried out.
And in 1996, the concept of SCM appeared,
that is, the management of chains of traffic, the movement of material and information flows,
and the concept of CRM, management of marketing information,
that is, contacts, sales and campaigns.
All this was integrated or synergized in 2001-2002 into the so-called ERP-2 concept,
that is, the concept became integrated into the planning system of enterprise resources and external connections.
The textbook shows the structure and the name of most of these theoretical concepts,
with English and Russian translations.
We will not dwell on all these concepts,
we will consider only some of them,
which will allow us to assess the evolution, logic and dynamics of the development of theoretical concepts for information technologies.
We will also consider only the key systems, such as ERP, SCM, BI, CRM systems,
which affect the business of any manager in any company.
The concept of planning of material needs in ERP-1
involves the method of solving the following management tasks.
Namely, the formation of a schedule of supply, raw materials and components,
management of warehouses and accounting of returns, that is, supplies of materials.
The concept of planning of needs in ERP production capacities
aims to improve the use of production capacities of work centers,
that is, equipment, supply lines, work brigades.
The system performs planning and balancing of the loading of these work centers,
taking into account some resource restrictions, plans for the production of finished products.
The information system of ERP and MRP classes
provides the implementation of the management functions from top to bottom,
without accounting for feedback,
as well as the solution of functional tasks of planning of materials needs and production capacities.
Such functions of management as business planning,
planning of sales, planning of production,
development of the main calendar plan of production,
were not covered.
Planning of ERP-2 resources is an improved method of planning of all types of business resources
and extension of the closed cycle,
which was at the previous stages of ERP development.
The most important installation of the ERP standard
is the provision of the leading personnel with the necessary information
for making management decisions.
The ERP-2 system provides support for 16 functions of the management of the corporation,
which can be grouped as follows.
The first is business planning,
the second is planning of sales and operations,
the third is planning of production,
the fourth is the formation of the main calendar plan of production,
the fifth is planning of materials needs,
the sixth is planning of capacity needs,
and finally, the seventh is the system of supporting the implementation of plans
for production capacities.
The ERP-2 system is a detailed and precise production model.
The main objects are shown on the slide.
This is the enlarged plan of production needs,
the plan of materials needs,
the plan of production needs,
and the financial plan.
The disadvantages of ERP-2 are the lack of integration
with the management processes of finances and personnel,
and the orientation to the existing orders.
There is no special task complex for forecasting demand.
Another disadvantage is the weak integration
with the design and design systems,
that is, with the so-called SAPR systems,
that is, with the automated design systems,
that is, with the construction and production systems.
Since the 1990s, ERP-2 has been integrated with the financial resource planning module
and the business planning system.
As a result, the enterprise planning system has been formed,
which allows to effectively plan the commercial activities of the corporation,
the financial resources, equipment resources,
as well as to prepare investment projects.
The ERP methodology is based on the principle of a single repository of data,
which contains all the business information accumulated by the corporation
during the business operation.
This includes financial information,
data related to production, management of personnel,
as well as any other information.
The main feature of ERP-2 MRP system
is the fundamental principle of systematic and functional integrity of the management system.
Such systems can be used to manage enterprises of various scales,
as they allow to optimize business processes
to reduce production costs and to implement the production, work and services.
They can be used to plan and manage the stock of material values,
to manage the cost of the product,
to reduce costs or unfinished production,
to reduce the production cycle,
to take into account the work of each production unit,
to make changes to the production plan
and to improve the service of the clients and customers of the corporation.
However, with the accumulation of experience of modeling production and non-production business processes,
the concept of ERP is constantly being refined,
improving, embracing more and more business functions,
such as working with clients,
working with supply chain management,
assistance system in decision-making,
e-commerce system.
The foundation of such integration is the unification of the concept of the life cycle of the product,
the transition to the principles of constant improvement of the enterprise,
which often forced to abandon the strict administrative hierarchical management schemes,
as well as the aspiration and the emergence of information system
for the description of business processes and enterprise models,
Therefore, the key integral definition of ERP system can be given as follows.
ERP system is a kind of integration component approach to corporate management,
which is based on information technology,
quality management system, international standards, business model,
mechanisms of constant improvement of management activities.
Thanks to ERP system,
more than 90 business processes of any corporation can be integrated.
In 2001, the already mentioned consulting system Gartner Group introduced the concept of ERP-2,
which differs from the usual traditional ERP systems by the following features.
First of all, it is an expanded functionality of ERP systems,
that is, a complete automation of the functions of the management system in real-time.
Next, it is the significance of ERP system for the activities of the corporation.
That is, ERP system becomes the core of the corporate management system.
Next, it is the transition from the automation of internal business processes in the company
to the free interaction of the company with its counter-agents,
that is, customers, suppliers, banks, tax authorities, and so on.
The next distinguishing feature is that ERP-2 systems,
both internal and external, do not feel any restrictions on the scale or geographical location.
In fact, the distance does not matter for the ERP system user.
The next feature of ERP system is openness,
that is, support for interaction with external information systems
based on standard technologies and software interfaces.
The next feature is a unified information space,
which is created in ERP-2 system for the adoption of management decisions,
high level of information quality for the implementation of functions of management,
as well as the introduction of modern information methods and data processing technologies.
And, of course, another distinctive feature is high reliability of ERP-2 systems
and corporate information systems based on ERP-2,
protection of data from unauthorized access and other threats of integrity and data preservation,
as well as a friendly user interface.
In fact, the descriptive answers to the following points are based on the business model of the corporation.
What business functions do they have?
What does the business do?
How does the enterprise implement these functions?
What business processes exist for the implementation of these functions?
Where are these business functions and processes executed?
What is the organizational structure of the enterprise or corporation?
When or in what sequence should these business functions or processes be implemented?
This question determines the phases of these business functions and processes.
And, of course, who performs these business processes?
Who determines the roles of these business units in the implementation of these business functions or processes?
And all this is connected with some general rules.
And this is expressed in the corresponding descriptions, regulations and models.
The slide shows the business model of the corporation for understanding the ERP system.
It makes sense for our virtual SMB corporation,
that is, a corporation related to medium and small business,
to focus on some requirements that should be applied to its ERP system.
One of these requirements should be full functionality.
This is the most comprehensive coverage of business functions.
That is, the answer to the question, what does the business do?
According to the research corporation Aberdeen Group,
it was in August 2006,
69% of medium enterprises and 64% of small businesses
were chosen by the functionality as a determining factor
by the criteria of the function of the ERP system.
That is, they operate the system for 3-5 years,
and this system should give feedback,
that is, perform the functions that they put into it.
And it is desirable that the chosen ERP solution or ERP system
allowed to expand the business,
that is, it should be scalable, not only fully functional.
The next requirement is flexibility and control.
That is, the ability to better control the business,
which implies some development, some rules, procedures
throughout the enterprise, throughout the corporation,
the creation of some accounting backbone,
finance, materials and other resources.
Based on this backbone,
some decisions on the issues of the corporation will be made.
Further, such a system as the ERP system,
as the ease of mastering,
it is clear, because small and medium enterprises
do not have large IT resources,
so the degree of complexity of installation or implementation of the system
should be provided with ease of mastering.
Therefore, the basic requirement here is some kind of graphical interfaces,
allowing the user to easily and quickly master some expanded functions of the ERP system.
These interfaces are preferred to be localized,
translated to the language of the business owner,
or the manager.
They should offer the user convenience of configuration,
simple, in fact, methods.
Drag and drop,
that is, you take the icon,
transfer it, grab it,
with this minimum number of clicks,
you need to control.
Also, as ease of mastering,
it is desirable that the ERP system has so-called dashboards,
that is, the dashboards of the device parallel management,
where the manager can see on certain issues
how a given indicator, KPI, changes.
If, for example, something on production changes in the worse direction,
then, of course, this indicator, as an indicator dashboard,
should show, for example, red, yellow, or green, if everything is in order.
Further, the requirements of ease of maintenance, in fact,
that is, ease of support and maintenance,
since IT departments of our corporations, especially small and medium-sized,
have insignificant resources, I have already mentioned this.
Further, availability at the price and predictability.
It is meant that the ERP system itself for small and medium-sized enterprises
should not affect too much and be available at the total cost of ownership,
and not only for purchase, but also for support,
for expansion, for changing some functionality, and so on.
And, of course, the last requirement for our ERP systems
is to use the best practice, the best experience in a particular business area.
Therefore, there is a typical set that can automate the ERP system.
In your textbook, you have a complete set of automated business processes.
Here I will only point out some of them.
Production, for example, management of the workshop schedule,
product configuration, business analysis,
that is, working with the system in self-related indicators,
the Balancer Scorecard,
design of some multidimensional analytical cubes,
we will talk about this a little bit later,
internal and external audit,
in order to understand and analyze the business process,
distribution, some distribution functions,
that is, management of the distribution system,
processing of orders,
orders taking into account some commercial agreements,
management of sales and marketing,
telemarketing, again,
marketing, management of sales,
service to customers via the Internet,
management of supply chains,
again, forecast planning,
management of supply,
further, management of service activities,
that is, support of the widest possible range of service operations,
again, management of repairs,
further, management of projects,
implementation of some current activity for various projects,
planning and analysis of the results of these projects,
of course, management of personnel,
that is, organizational structure of the enterprise,
monitoring, moving of personnel,
selection, management of personnel qualification,
management of finances,
that is, accounting of the main funds,
calculation of the salary,
accounting of the accounts, and so on.
These are the main business processes
and business functions,
that the ERP system should automate.
As the history of the development of the ERP concept shows,
traditionally, in fact,
at the very beginning of the traditional ERP system,
they were also oriented to increase flexibility and transparency.
And although these systems allowed to improve
the processing of orders, products,
their capabilities were not enough
to manage complex business processes.
Since to solve this task,
especially at the modern stage,
any business needs to create
some kind of ecosystem around itself,
which would push the most valuable clients
and interested persons
to share business knowledge with each other.
This is what the ERP-2 system should do.
In fact,
again,
translating the words of the analysts from Gartner,
we can say that the ERP system,
ERP-2,
is a kind of business strategy
and a set of applications
oriented to provide a specific industry,
a corporation,
and to increase the value of the company
for its clients
and for its owners
by supporting and optimizing
operational and financial processes,
by working together inside and between enterprises.
In other words,
ERP-2 is a competitive strategy
of integrating the centralized ERP system base
with such narrowly specialized solutions
as client management system,
supplier management system,
knowledge management system,
and so on.
The high-quality difference between ERP-2 and traditional ERP systems
is the ability to manage the information chain of values
to create a massive long-term
internal and external relations.
In other words,
a chain of community of values is created,
which increases the transparency of access to information,
speeds up the decision-making process
and reduces the most important response time
to these decisions.
It promotes the availability of knowledge
for joint dialogue,
which may result in new ideas,
innovations,
and optimal solutions to complex problems.
The next slide shows
the cross-section of knowledge areas
for continuous business improvement.
ERP system is a part of the system
and integrates with business modeling,
corporate culture,
and human factor.
This synergy allows
to constantly improve corporations,
to constantly innovate corporations.
Joseph Schumpeter,
the great economist of the last century,
said that profit can be obtained
not only from exploitation of a person
or from some kind of economy,
but also from the fact that an entrepreneur
can constantly come up with new ideas
for his business
and draw profit from it.
Now, a little bit about the ERP market in Russia.
It is growing
by 30-35% per year,
according to the analysts.
It is a good growth.
The main ERP vendors
are shown on the slide.
The main share is
owned by German company SAP,
American company Oracle,
Russian company 1S,
Microsoft,
Russian company Paros.
The second slide shows
the evaluation of the ERP implementation
of two leading vendors,
Oracle and SAP.
These evaluations are
from the point of view
of small and medium business.
The most significant criteria
for choosing ERP are also shown,
such as functionality,
ease of use,
and total value of ownership.
The following two slides
show the demand for different IT systems
for small and medium business,
as well as the cost of ERP projects,
average costs of their implementation,
and the time duration of these projects
for the implementation of ERP systems.
So, those customers
who do not have enough funds
for the comprehensive,
that is, the whole purchase
and implementation of ERP systems,
usually start the implementation
with some modules.
Usually, it is an accounting module
or accounting of the main funds,
commodity values,
or management of staff
and salary calculations,
or management of production,
planning, logistics,
or management of relations with clients.
It depends on
which business is the most critical
or which business function is the most critical.
According to many IT companies
that implement ERP systems
for their business customers,
the threshold for the implementation
of the western ERP system
is about 5 million dollars.
And even 1 million dollars
is enough
to implement some flexible modules,
some key modules,
that will allow
to raise the business
to a new height.
As for the domestic ERPs,
the initial cost of the implementation,
including costs for IT audit and consulting,
is about 100 thousand dollars.
Again, I repeat,
that the examples of such systems
for the medium enterprises
are called
Microsoft Dynamics X-Apto,
Microsoft Dynamics Navision,
SAP Business One,
Oracle Standard Edition,
and our domestic 1S enterprise
version 8.
Of course, there are others.
As the Russian economy develops,
the sector of the medium-to-small business
will develop rapidly,
and it is developing
rapidly now.
This leads to the improvement
of organizational structure
and business processes,
to the increase of competition.
And here it is impossible
to do without IT management solutions.
In fact, one of such solutions
is the implementation of ERP systems
in the practice of the economy.
So, let's continue our journey
on IT concepts.
Let's consider CRM systems
and SCM systems,
that is, the work with clients,
customers and suppliers.
Here we will consider the issues
of marketing and logistics automation.
According to the definition
of the same Gartner Group,
the system of client-to-client relations
is, in fact, a business strategy
designed to optimize
the income, profitability
and satisfaction of clients.
In fact, according to the research
of the Russian market,
the CRM system,
which was developed by the company
DSS Consulting in July 2007,
more than 50% of all CRM solutions
are now in the hands
of banks, insurance companies
and some investment companies.
This is shown in the slide.
The modern stage of development
of the management system
corresponds to the concept
of marketing interaction,
that is, the construction of a network
of suppliers and consumers.
The basis of this is the use
of the electronic business,
which significantly transformed
the structure of the enterprise,
influenced the automation
of business processes
of such branches as marketing,
production, supply and demand.
The main goal of the CRM system
is to create a network
of suppliers and consumers
that will be able
to provide the necessary
information to the client
and to the client
in the process of marketing,
production, supply and demand,
neocor, finance, personnel,
as well as for the collective use
of which are some legal
or recruiting agencies or audits.
In this regard, the tasks
of the CRM system are
the first one,
to provide the operational access
to information during contact
with the client
in the process of sale or service.
This includes marketing,
sales and service.
The second one is the joint analysis
of the data that characterizes
the activity of the client and the company.
The third one is to get new knowledge
and conclusions of the recommendations.
Here, complex mathematical models
for searching some statistical
patterns are used,
the most effective marketing,
sales or service strategies
are developed.
The fourth task is to provide
the direct participation of the client
in the activities of the corporation
and the possibility to influence
the processes of the product development,
production or service service.
Let's stop at the typical
possibilities of the modern CRM systems.
The first one is the classification
of contacts in different categories.
The second one is the determination
of the target groups for advertising companies.
The third one is the development
of the sales cycle, management
of their capabilities and analysis,
the fourth one is the planning
and control of the actions for each contact,
such as phone calls,
visits, marketing materials
and so on.
The fifth one is the simplified
access to the data of existing
and potential clients,
dealers, agents, partners,
competitors and in general contact persons.
The sixth one is the implementation
of some marketing tasks.
The seventh one is the effective management
of the trading and marketing information.
The eighth one is the implementation
of the services of the companies
and the clients' requirements
and the automation of the tasks
for the implementation of the services.
The development of the CRM concept
led to the emergence of other concepts
and directions, such as
the management of the relationships
with the enterprises,
the so-called Enterprise Relationship Management,
the ERM.
The peculiarity of this system
is that when the systems
of supply chains
and the systems of clients
are connected together,
that is, their synergy
develops at the same speed,
that is, if these two systems
are combined,
it will be a super system
that automates all the relationships
and business processes
in a separately owned company.
Such systems are called
ERM – Enterprise Relationship Management.
The main advantage of this system
is that it is a comprehensive
management system.
The ERM plus SCM equals EIM.
You can write it like this.
The second concept is the management
of the main funds.
EAM – Enterprise Asset Management.
This is also a management methodology
that allows you to increase
the production capacity of the enterprise
only by using IT,
IT technologies, products or solutions,
without resorting to the purchase
of some kind of a product.
At the same time,
EAM solution is one of the main links
that connect the information management
systems of the production processes
with the business processes
of the enterprise management,
that is, ERP systems.
As a result,
the EAM system reduces
the time of waiting,
the costs of maintenance,
equipment,
and so on.
This is a very important
reason why the main funds
are becoming more economical
and more efficient.
Examples of ERP systems solutions
can be in the case of small
and medium-sized businesses.
I will name them only.
There are a lot of them.
These are Sales Expert,
Consi Marketing,
Sales Logics,
IST,
Oracle,
SAP,
BAN,
and other.
There are a lot of them.
So,
let's summarize.
The core of the ERP system
is the functional
for managing the business
processes of the companies,
which determines the ability
of the ERP system
to increase the efficiency of the business.
Due to what?
Due to the reduction of some
routine functions,
due to the training of new staff,
due to the implementation
of the best practices
and organization of work
according to some regulations.
Another feature of the ERP system
is the modules
providing high-quality
and fast service to the clients.
I mean the modules
of the Call Center,
as well as the Service Desk,
Help Desk,
Service Service.
This module
helps the companies
with a large number of clients
to manage the incidents and problems,
to process the requests,
to serve the clients on time,
and to take into account
the costs of their service.
Another
very remarkable
feature of the ERP system
is the implementation
of the so-called sales pipeline.
You've probably
studied it in marketing.
I'll just mention it.
The sales pipeline
and the forecast technology
are designed to provide
a reasonable planning
of the sales.
The pipeline serves
to assess the number
and quality of the possible deals
with potential clients.
The sales cycle is based on
the initial investment
and the sales that starts
with the information
that comes in the form
of incoming calls,
letters, requests
from potential clients
and accumulates
either in the marketing department
or actively gathers
in the telemarketing department
through some cold calls.
Then the filter of the adequacy
of the received information
starts to work,
and the profile of the client
is determined.
The deal may be disqualified
and not be accepted
into the pipeline.
The sales department
does not take any action
on this information.
But this information is registered
in the ERP system
so that it can be returned
after a certain period of time
or to avoid any
repeated actions in the future.
The information is transferred
to the sales manager
for subsequent qualifications
and the next sales cycle
starts here.
It turns out to be
a funnel that is spinning
until the deal is closed
and the sale is made.
That's why it is called
a funnel of sales.
Let's briefly talk about
SCM systems.
You have already studied them
in the Start MBA module
on the program
dedicated to production management.
Here we will only touch upon
those issues that explain
how IT affects the supply chain in general.
Let me remind you
what is Supply Chain Management.
SCM.
In literal translation,
it means the management
of the supply chain.
It is a chain of
interconnected objects,
material and information
flows of the enterprise,
its suppliers, distributors and clients.
In every link of this complex chain
there is an inevitable loss of time,
resources, money.
Money is lost somewhere.
For example,
due to some disagreements,
due to excessive storage,
due to irrational delivery
and so on.
Unlike ERP system,
SCM solution
is based on
the minimization of these costs.
That is, increasing productivity
and delivery speed.
And the main thing is synchronization
of management of connected business processes
in all links of the supply chain.
It is shown very well on the slide.
The general process scheme works on the warehouse.
Receiving, placing, planning,
selection, ordering, replenishment.
And the main thing that supports
business processes
in SCM chain is
inventorying, moving,
correction, processing,
forming accounts,
management of warehouse resources,
transaction control,
processing of returns, transfer, billing.
Traditionally,
SCM system is divided
into planning system,
supply chain planning,
and management system,
supply chain execution,
SCE.
SCE system allows
to calculate optimal structure
of the supply chain,
and also provides a complex planning
of the entire supply chain and management of reserves.
And at the same time,
taking into account some resource limitations
of production,
SCM system is building a supply chain.
Using the SCE system,
which is gaining popularity now,
planning and management of the supply
is carried out.
It is called
SRM, Supply Relationship Management.
And also storage,
warehouse management system,
WMS,
and transportation.
The development of SCM
is the most active
in such growing
and consolidating markets
as retail,
distribution,
car manufacturing,
metallurgy, and so on.
That is, where the role of planning
of supply is important,
and the minimization of logistic costs,
and the clear control of cost
and supply channels.
Let's turn to the analysts
of Gartner Group.
They highlight the following
most capacious and business-like
applications of logistic management
systems in business.
The first is non-stop production.
The second is warehouse production.
The third is order production.
The fourth is order assembly.
The fifth is retail trading.
The sixth is service-oriented business.
That is, business for a specific client
or for a particular manufacturer.
And distribution.
Recently,
there has been a tendency
to include retail trading
in a single integrated business management system.
In modern SEM solutions,
it is necessary to have
both optimal and synchronous planning
of the goods movement
in both directions.
That is, from the ready-made product,
that is, from the supplier to the consumer,
back to the defective product,
from the consumer back to the supplier.
That is, the return chain of supplies
is also of great importance.
The main functional areas
and processes of the return chain of supplies,
although they include
stores, warehouses, production,
but they are very different
from the functionality
that supports the direct supply chain,
that is, from the traditional SEM solution.
Therefore, companies
that very often deal with returns,
let's say, cell operators,
electronics sellers,
clothing manufacturers,
and so on,
allocate the return management
and service management
to a separate business.
Sometimes they even transfer it to outsourcing,
which can bring up to 40% of the profit.
Finally,
another key trend
of the development of SEM systems
is the transition from the push,
that is, the strategy of managing
the supply chain,
to the pull, the strategy.
It is designed to change
the conceptual basis of the SEM solution.
Most of the modern systems
of this class
are based on the push strategy,
that is, the maximization of the passability
of existing distribution channels
and the minimization of production
of logistical costs.
This is their paradigm of work.
At the same time,
the algorithm of the optimal plan
implies that if a company
strives to raise the service level,
it has to deal
with the absence of a product.
It has to deal with it automatically,
with the increase of costs
for the maintenance of some reserves,
for more frequent transportation.
The task of the optimization of the chain
is to find the minimum
when the service level
is increased.
The strategy pull
is opposed to this statement.
The effectively organized supply chains
are able to raise the service level
and reduce the production
logistical costs.
If earlier companies built
their supply chains
based on their own cost,
production schedules,
then the mass outsourcing
in China, India
or other countries
led to the realization
that the reduction of the stock
and the timely delivery
of the goods
is no less important
than the reduction of the cost
and production.
The new generation
of the S7 system
emphasizes the prognosis
of demand
and the effective supply chain
through the reverse distribution
of demand
in the chain of cost.
The logistics of production
is a simple example.
The most popular
Apple iPod
costs about $1000.
Its cost in the West
is about $299.
The cost of production
is about $5.
The rest of the
$299
is divided
by the designers
and programmers
of the brand.
The second half
is taken by the tax authorities
and logistic firms.
The cost of $5
cannot be compared
to the cost of the logistic firm.
In this case,
the S7 solution
will be the most advanced
than the implementation
of the ERP system
in the Chinese enterprise.
This is an example.
What are the suppliers
of the S7 solution?
They are the big companies
that offer the same ERP systems.
This is a module of the solution
that is included
in the general structure of ERP.
There is also
a whole assortment
of solutions
of the B2B class.
In particular,
SAP offers
the solution
of the German company
or the company
of the I2 class.
There are other solutions
and other vendors.
So, we have
a stable trend
when three key sources
of information for marketing,
sales and advertising,
namely, the marketing research,
the SRM and SCM systems,
as well as the business intelligence data
are integrated into a single system
based on the modernized data collection,
analysis and delivery.
This system is the basis
of a higher level
of business management.
It is necessary to generate ideas
and make decisions,
as well as to manage knowledge.
If we take a look at the full-fledged
functioning human body,
the digital nervous system,
namely, the SRM system,
will consist of
the brain of the marketing research
as well as the sensor system,
namely, the business intelligence data
and the specialized components,
as well as the CSM system
or other specialized components.
The network communications,
analytics,
the integrated elements
of the software applications,
data collection
and the results of the marketing research
will be necessary
to bring everything
into harmony and order.
In order to understand the consumer
and to declare,
or as the founder of the management,
Mr. Drucker,
said,
that the goal of the business
is to produce a satisfied client,
in order to produce
a satisfied client,
we need to strive for some new
conceptual and functional changes,
the result of which
should be the unification of companies
specialized in the CRM systems
and ERP systems,
the SCM systems,
the marketing research
and the business analysis.
So,
let's continue
to look at our concepts
and now we will look at the concept
of business efficiency monitoring,
that is, the products of business analytics
or, as it is now called,
business intelligence.
The term business intelligence,
BI,
was coined by Howard Dressner,
now the vice-president of Gardner Group,
a company that is now gone,
in 1989.
It was coined
to design a set of concepts
and a method of increasing
the efficiency of business decision-making
using some kind of fact-graphic
information systems.
The correct translation of business intelligence
is business intelligence,
that is, business intelligence,
competitive intelligence,
which has nothing to do
with IT technologies and IT solutions.
But the BI systems
of the early 90s,
of the 20th century
and the end of the 90s
brought IT technologies
to the concept
of business intelligence,
that is,
to the BI concept.
That is,
BI systems appeared
in the early 90s
and the main reason
for their appearance
was the widespread
introduction of
some corporate information systems,
which allowed
to quickly collect
significant volumes of data
and process it.
Before them,
according to the estimates
of other analysts
from IBM,
only 2 or even 4%
of the data
was processed by companies
or influenced the decision-making.
Thus,
the information systems
and information resources
that were not used effectively
were, in fact,
the reason for the birth
of BI systems.
Another event
that influenced
the emergence
of business analytics
was the fact
that since 2004
there was
a legislative
or legal reason
for the enterprises
that wanted
or were associated
with the US business.
Namely,
the well-known
financial abuse scandals
of the leadership
of a number of corporations
such as Enron or Worldcom.
Approximately,
on November 15, 2004,
the law of
Sarbanes-Oxley
was finally introduced
and adopted in 2002.
It was also called
SOX.
S-O-X
It was intended to provide
some ethical behavior
to the companies
by observing
the information disclosure process.
In particular,
all financial accounts
should contain information
about all transactions,
agreements,
obligations and other
relations related
to the business processes
of the company.
This was also the reason
for the birth
or the stimulus
of the emergence
of the BIOSystems
that provide
a fast data collection
and a complex data analysis
of the business processes.
Thus,
today's BIOSystems
are a means
of turning the information
accumulated by the enterprises
or corporations into capital
and a monitoring system
for the managers' actions
in the corporations.
It is important
that the information
is delivered to the employees
in a convenient way and on time.
Today, it is necessary
to understand the vast amount
of fast data,
to present the information
systematically and
to assess the effectiveness
of the activity
based on specific KPIs.
Companies that want
to make a step forward
should do everything
to ensure that their employees
always have access
to the important information
and deliver it on time.
The following two slides
show the entire cycle
of business analysis
and management
of the business processes
of the corporations
from the perspective of BIOSystems.
It is a report and analysis,
then we move to the management
of the data storage,
and then we move to the report
and analysis.
It is a cycle of business analysis
that manages
the modern corporation.
At the current stage,
the BI Concept is a separate
direction of activity
that includes data collection
on the economic security
of the enterprise,
statistical and logical analysis
and the management
of the important information
that allows to reduce the risk
when making some important
and fundamental decisions
for the development of the business.
Data collection and analysis
within the scope of business analysis
includes both macroeconomic processes
and legal field,
that is, monitoring of the general state
of the external environment
in the state of the legal environment,
as well as external microeconomic processes,
that is, monitoring of competitors,
as well as internal corporate processes,
that is, monitoring of the internal
state of the activities of the unit
up to a specific employee.
The typical BIOSystem contains the following modules.
They are shown on the slide.
Module 1 is a set of
data storage organization tools,
so-called data warehouse,
Module 2 is a subsystem
for extracting data
about transactions from various database
and converting them into a standard
BIOSystem,
that is, the so-called ETL system,
Extract, Transform and Load.
Then the third module is a system
of business activity monitoring,
business processes,
business activity monitoring
or business process monitoring.
The fourth module is a subsystem
for generating requests and reports,
query and reporting.
And the fifth module is
a module of the business process
analysis,
that is,
online analytic processing,
or lab system,
and data mining.
Let's take a look at the functioning
of these systems.
Data storage organization tools
and data showcase provide
the BIOSystem with some
data arrays,
and they must be specialized,
extracted from the corporate system.
They are also structured
in an optimal way
for subsequent analysis.
The slide shows
how the BIOSystem functions.
That is,
data is extracted from the operational sub-system
and some external data,
data storage is created,
that is, the so-called OLAP cube.
OLAP cube is,
to explain it with fingers,
a representation of data
in a three-dimensional
and more spatial way.
That is,
when we have
a two-dimensional system of coordinates,
and this one is three-dimensional.
This is an OLAP cube analog.
That is, we can analyze
data on, for example,
sales,
here on time of sales,
and here on territories.
Or instead of territories,
maybe a third one,
here it is,
to explain with fingers what OLAP cube is.
Next, we will look at it again.
And from OLAP cubes
some data showcases are obtained,
that is,
sharpened for some specific purposes,
some specific tasks
of data storage.
As a rule,
data showcases differ from data storage
in that they contain
a multitude of data,
not all, but a multitude
relating to some particular topic or activity.
And the whole operational database
together with external sources of information
should be considered as raw material
for the creation of subject-oriented,
integrated,
unchangeable by structure
chronological data,
that is, analyzed in systems
to support decision-making,
which subsequently
and based on subsequent decisions.
For example, a showcase or a kiosk
is a multitude of chronological data
providing the necessary
performance of obtaining and analyzing data
for the end users
and protection from unauthorized access.
Data storage itself
is, in fact,
subject-oriented,
integrated and, again, unchangeable
set of data
supporting some chronology,
organized for decision-making.
As a rule, they are oriented
towards analysis
and decision-making
and some data representation.
Data integration
between different transaction processing systems
and multidimensional data storage
is provided
by the system
of data extraction,
conversion and recording.
In fact, it is a connecting link
between OLTP systems
and data storage,
data showcases,
and data showcases.
OLTP systems are designed
to access data databases,
consolidate them,
convert them into a certain format
and store them
and record them there.
The monitoring system of business activity
monitors the business processes
at the enterprise in real time,
receives data from the transaction processing system,
and stores the monitoring data
while simultaneously
undergoing some kind of analysis
and control of the state.
In case of any rules
or indicators
being activated,
for example, the process
going beyond the standard limits,
the OLTP system automatically
notifies the person responsible
for the process
about the occurrence of a problem
and provides detailed data
for optimal decision-making.
It is usually expressed
as an interface
or a dashboard
in which
some KPI indicator
is colored
either red
or yellow
or green.
The business is in order.
The sub-system of generating
requests and reports is designed
to quickly generate
and select data
from the data storage
for a specified shelter.
Such selection
provides the possibility
of retrospective analysis
of business processes
in the right order
and a certain degree of detail.
The means of processing
of arbitrary requests
that select data
more flexibly
in accordance with
some non-standard needs
of the users
is a high flexibility
when creating
complex reports
and the possibility
of obtaining information
in real-time.
OLAP requires some processing
and some lag time
for the system to be able
to analyze and provide
the necessary analysis result.
The means of data analysis
of the BI system
is divided into two categories.
The first one is OLAP
and the second one is
the Interactual Data Analysis
or DM
or Knowledge Discovery.
The OLAP means
that it is a system
that conducts
a multidimensional data analysis
based on selected data
and provides the necessary
data analysis results
in a cross-table
with the possibility
of detail analysis
based on each indicator
and forms the so-called
OLAP-coupes that I mentioned.
The means of data mining
and corporate data analysis
are designed
to detect
the correlation between
the stored data
and to identify some trends.
For this purpose,
complex mechanisms,
statistical and special
methods of data analysis
can also be used.
There are also imitation models
of business processes.
The slide shows
the cycle of using
the data mining technology
in business analysis.
The first stage
is the business task setting.
The specific business tasks
are formulated.
The task setting
is quite extensive.
For example,
to build high-profit profiles
or to identify groups
of unloyal customers.
In the future,
the tasks will be clarified,
expanded and deepened
by the cycle.
The second stage
is the primary data analysis.
The business task is formulated
and the preliminary data analysis
is started.
The third stage
is the data preparation
for further analysis.
For example,
to deliver,
to reformat, etc.
The fourth stage
is the data analysis.
The technical process
and the range of algorithms
are very extensive.
From the methods of
unclear clustering
and tree solutions
to the methods of
unclear linguistic rules.
The fifth stage
is the interpretation of the results.
The final stage
is the data presentation
in a convenient and clear form
to evaluate and make
a business decision.
As an example,
we consider the business case
of making a typical decision
in business analysis
based on the information collection
from the mass media
and the Internet.
The following slides
show the conceptual
and logical scheme.
As a rule,
the user must solve
three tasks.
The first is to be able
to connect to the sources
of unstructured information
and structured data.
The second task is
to be able to
process large volumes of information
in a normal and objective way.
The third task is to present
the results of the analysis
in a convenient form.
In other words,
the connection,
data extraction,
processing and presentation.
Analysts and experts are involved.
There are internal and external sources
and a single storage of information.
The first task is partially solved
by integrating unstructured sources
with the help of corporate search engines.
The search engine can index documents
and centralize access to them.
In this case,
the corporate search engine
is the entry point for all sources.
The user can always get
a hint of where
a particular material is located.
The second task of data extraction
is to be able to solve
data extraction with tools.
These are classification,
rubrication,
data processing,
so-called information extractors.
It is possible to present
data, money, addresses
in a uniform way.
As for the analysis tools,
the third task,
such tools as BI and Data Mining
allow not only to apply
standard analysis tools,
but also to integrate information
from structured and unstructured sources.
This is a three-component solution
of the search engine.
Such a three-component solution
of the search engine,
data extraction and analysis tools
is an optimal technological combination
when solving business intelligence tasks.
Why is it so?
This is discussed in detail
in the business case.
You can see it in the textbook.
Let's stop here.
The existing systems
that automate the process
of search, extraction and analysis
allow to change the nature
of the analytical and expert's work.
From the excavation of facts
to their verification and analysis.
The most important thing is
to significantly increase
the processing speed of information.
For comparison,
if we take one article
with a size of 150-300 KB,
an analyst can process
200 articles in one day,
an expert-analyst 400,
and the extraction technology,
similar to the one described
in the textbook,
can process 20,000 articles
in one single-process machine configuration.
So, the data is incomparable.
Thanks to business intelligence tools
our small corporation
can become a big one
if it can use
the key performance indicators
of KPI
in order to increase scalability.
Secondly,
we can create the key performance indicators
of the corporate strategy
and manage them.
We can use them as a basis
for the cooperation between the corporations.
Thirdly,
we can make individual settings
of the business analysis information panels,
the so-called dashboards,
that meet the needs of the individual employees
and the general strategy of the company.
Fourthly,
we can use the working processes
of the subscription and compensation
of the employees of the corporation
during the course of these changes.
Fifthly,
we can provide accountability
by studying the specific performance indicators.
We can also get the necessary information
by creating free reports on the request.
We can also distribute the information
of the analytical instruments
within the organization
via the Internet,
which is very cheap.
It is easy to navigate the data
and extract it from various sources
using the most familiar terminology.
It is also easy to understand
the characteristics of the company's activities
and to identify the business development trends
in real-time,
thanks to the constant connection
to almost any data source
in the process of analysis.
Some enterprises
develop the ALAP solutions
with the help of their IT specialists,
which are built on the existing
data databases,
such as the MAP,
or the Oracle.
However,
such BI systems
cannot be considered as full-fledged,
because the business analytics blocks
in accounting systems,
especially ERPs,
cannot provide all the necessary information
in their own time.
Also, the analytical models
developed in these systems
often do not contain a complete set
of necessary analytical sections
and indicators,
which is why
the announcements
of developers and vendors
such as Oracle,
Business Object, or Microsoft
have already appeared.
The release of specialized BI tools
for medium and small corporations
is shown on the slide.
The price of such solutions
is approximately $1,000
per one workplace.
It is not that much money.
Such BI tools
are not designed for a specific business function
or a specific area.
They are more like a setting
for an ERP system.
In addition,
the interface of such BI tools
allows to obtain data
not only in the form of tables,
but also in the form of graphical data.
I mean, in a graphical way.
So, BI systems are especially relevant
for companies operating
in high competition
and high dynamics.
Their business is client-oriented.
It usually includes
retail,
experimental,
pharmaceutical,
banking, telecommunications,
insurance, etc.
The IT infrastructure
is usually well-developed
in the mentioned segments,
which is undoubtedly an important factor
in the functioning of BI systems.
And, as a rule,
developers and vendors
need to be able to assess
the events of the business
in a short time.
They need to be able to manage
the business in a real time.
That's why
BI systems are an important
component
or a core
of their business.
If a company
needs to find
an optimal solution
considering many factors
like raw materials quality,
large batch load capacity,
delay risk, payment deadline,
delivery cost, etc.
Then this task requires
large amounts of calculations
and specially prepared data.
And you can't solve this task
with just accounting systems
or BI modules.
For such problems,
you need a special
BI system,
which allows you to make
a decision with high accuracy
and high probability.
In fact,
this is one of the
undoubted advantages
of our SMB corporation
if managers
make a decision
about the introduction of BI systems.
Let's move on
to the next concept.
Workflow concept
and Enterprise Content Management
for electronic document processing systems.
Modern enterprise infrastructure
consists of many
interconnected subsystems
which represent
a wide range of activities
and they meet
numerous requirements
for the entire
electronic document processing system.
In particular,
for the SET system.
That's why
the use of SET systems
is based on
the organizational structure of the corporation,
the direction and transparency
of the information flows
and the principles of accountability
adopted by the corporation.
The important factors for SET
are the requirements
for tracking all stages
of the document lifecycle,
its route,
the introduction of protocols
and the user's rights
to access the document.
The slide shows
the place of the SET
in the typical
corporate information system
KIS.
It includes
four key subsystems
namely
IT infrastructure management,
ERP management,
document and content management
and business analytics.
The core of any
SET is
the workflow technology.
The term workflow
is a term for the systems
aimed at the automation
of a large number of business processes
with a small weight.
The workflow allows
to work with such business processes
as content,
which is constantly
modified and supplemented.
In our case,
content is the term
of the content of the document
and the scenario of the document
can be reflected on the paper
or in the electronic form.
The key feature
is the ability to work
with unstructured data.
The workflow technology
is created with the help
of a graphical editor
of a random route scheme.
The workflow technology
sets the transition rules
for the business processes
from one user to another
and also performs a formal monitoring
of the processes between users
with the possibility of
the distribution,
the convergence,
the investment
and other conditions
for the processing of the business process.
The workflow technology
allows to make changes
and optimize any process
based on the analysis of its current state
and at the same time
document the changes
that the user made
during the process.
For example,
one of the functions
of the workflow system
is the registration
of the actions of the document.
For example,
the document is accepted
to be executed
or transferred to the employee
or the document is given
a corresponding answer.
These are the rules
for the registration of the document
by the organizational managers
and the preparation of the agreement,
the signing of the agreement,
the approval of the additional agreement,
the registration,
the cancellation of the archive.
This scheme
is the core of
the workflow technology
that is adopted
in almost all
and constitutes the core
of any electronic document
or any other electronic document
system.
However, the further development
of the electronic document
is connected with the concept
of Enterprise Content Management
or ECM.
The corporations have accumulated
a lot of documents,
critical documents
that exist not only in electronic
but also in paper form
and they need a well-constructed
and interconnected system.
The enterprise logic
was supported with simple
and complex means,
from the file system,
to the electronic mail,
to the specialized applications.
But the entire business logic
was contained in the minds
of people who served
as a kind of information
and verification system
in any corporation.
There are such employees
who you can contact
and he will answer
a particular question.
Therefore, the ECM system
or Enterprise Content Management
is a kind of challenge
or an answer
when one person
is no longer able
to keep in mind
all the connections
and the entire business logic
of the organization.
What is the ECM system?
This concept unites
the technologies used
for processing unstructured information
related to the implementation
of certain organizational processes.
The unstructured information
includes documents
as well as
the more general concept
of content,
in particular,
the information content
of the Internet sites
and other data storages.
As a separate category,
the information should be
stored in an unchanged form.
In Russian,
there is no such thing.
Maybe,
usually records are characterized
as with archival data.
What is the ECM system?
The concept of Enterprise Content Management
unites all the technologies
related to the processing
of unstructured information.
The concept of processing information
is explained as follows.
The main function of the ECM system
is to store, manage,
ensure integrity
and provide information.
Pay attention to the capture
and the digitization
of the flow
or the transition
from uncharged form
to uncharged form.
The concept of capturing
the data from external sources
to the information system
of the company
is a very important
and important issue.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
The main problem
of the ECM system
is the fact
that the data
is automatically
transferred
from the source
to the data store.
SimData
in its address book
defines the concept
of PLM as a technology
that unites the database
and the application
that creates, manages
and distributes
information about the product
throughout its lifecycle.
This concept includes
both the modeling of the product
and its technical design,
production preparation,
and the production of the product.
Thus, PLM takes on
a number of functions
of other corporate systems
such as SCM, CRM, ERP.
The global market
is represented by
SAP PLM systems
and vendors
such as the American Autodesk,
the French Dessault Systems,
the American PTC
and UGS.
In addition to the automated
automation and
production optimization
systems, there are also
the mass systems
and the manufacturing
execution systems
that successfully reduce
production costs,
increase volume
and improve the quality
of the product.
The analysts point out
the possibility of saving
30-40% of the use
of the system.
The three-part solution
of the pyramid
is the Fobos solution.
There are other solutions,
but they are not
as complex as the Fobos.
The Fobos system
is used in a large machine
and usually with heavy ERP systems
such as BAN or SAP.
The developers of this system
work on the possibility
of integrating the Fobos
into the Mesh system
with the 1S version 8.
The slide shows the main systems
and developers
used in production
at Russian enterprises.
We have considered
the main concepts
for the business
and the SMB corporation.
These concepts describe
IT solutions and IT products
for B2B and B2C tasks.
The corporation's functioning
is carried out
in a state-level
public environment
that is also subject
to IT.
The last lecture
will be dedicated to IT solutions
and IT products for different
business processes.